README.md, before:

# Gentoo Installer

Gentoo installation script for `amd64` with `openRC`. This script is intended to create a default gentoo base system with a distribution kernel and `doas` instead of `sudo`, as well as `networkmanager` for managing network interfaces.

### Disclaimer

This project can be used as reference for different solutions but is not the final and ultimate approach for every use case. Any contribution either in the form of issues discovering, pull requests or ideas are welcome.

## Install

To install gentoo using this project, boot up a live ISO system and run the following command to download this installation script and run it with `bash` from an elevated shell session.

This script was tested only with Ubuntu but will most likely work (famous last words) with any of the major Linux distributions as dependencies are quite common, such as `wget`, `tar`, etc.

```bash
bash <(wget -qO- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pedro-pereira-dev/gentoo-installer/refs/heads/main/install.sh) \
  --hostname 'host' --username 'user'                                                                             \
  --device 'nvme0n1' --device-separator 'p'                                                                       \
  --efi-size '+1G' --swap-size '+32G' --root-size '+64G'                                                          \
  --timezone 'Europe/Lisbon' --keymap 'pt-latin9'
```

Commit message:

feat: simplifies code and adds support for both aarch64 and amd64, as well as legacy and uefi boot mode

README.md, after:

# Gentoo Installer

This script is used to obtain a [Gentoo](https://www.gentoo.org/) minimal installation on a systemm.
Gentoo is a linux meta-distribution focused on user freedom of choice. As such it does not provide an easy installation method like other popular distributions, this project aims to fill in that gap for my own needs.

*I use this project to setup and maintain all my Gentoo systems and is not intended for community use.*

The project supports both *`aarch64`* and *`amd64`* CPU architectures, and both *`BIOS / MBR legacy`* and *`UEFI`* boot mode.
It installs common utilities and Gentoo's distribution kernel.
Additional packages and customizations are implemented in the target systems with custom scripts by my own [_dotfiles_](https://github.com/pedro-pereira-dev/dotfiles) management system.

## Usage

This script is _POSIX_ compliant so it can be executed with any compatible shell and expects that disk partioning is performed beforehand by accepting a target boot and root filesystem device partition.
If no arguments are provided to the script, simple interactive questions are displayed to gather the required information for the installation.

### Basic usage

```sh
_TMP_FILE=$(mktemp)
curl -Lfs -o "$_TMP_FILE" 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pedro-pereira-dev/gentoo-installer/refs/heads/main/install.sh'
sh "$_TMP_FILE"
```

### Unattended usage

```sh
_TMP_FILE=$(mktemp)
curl -Lfs -o "$_TMP_FILE" 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pedro-pereira-dev/gentoo-installer/refs/heads/main/install.sh'
sh "$_TMP_FILE" \
  --hostname "$_HOSTNAME" \
  --password "$_PASSWORD" \
  --boot "$_BOOT_DEV" \
  --root "$_ROOT_DEV" \
  --keymap 'pt-latin9' \
  --timezone 'Europe/Lisbon'
```
